update helm chart ingress (#1073)
jupyter-server/enterprise_gateway: docs/source/operators/deploy-kubernetes.md

- spark_python_kubernetes
- spark_scala_kubernetes

Enterprise Gateway deployment is using  [elyra/enterprise-gateway](https://hub.docker.com/r/elyra/enterprise-gateway/) image under Enterprise Gateway dockerhub organization [elyra](https://hub.docker.com/r/elyra/) along with other kubernetes-based images. See [Docker Images](../contributors/docker.md) for image details.

When deployed within a [spark-on-kubernetes](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-kubernetes.html) cluster, Enterprise Gateway can easily support cluster-managed kernels distributed across the cluster. Enterprise Gateway will also provide standalone (i.e., _vanilla_) kernel invocation (where spark contexts are not automatically created) which also benefits from their distribution across the cluster.

> We are using helm templates to manage Kubernetes resource configurations which, allows enduser easily customize their Enterprise Gateway deployment.

Reviewer: couple of minor grammatical changes requested:

1. 'configurations which, allows' -> 'configurations, which allows'
2. 'allows enduser easily customize' -> 'allows end user to easily customize'

Reviewer 2: Thanks @bloomsa.

As a follow-on...

> 'allows enduser easily customize' -> 'allows end user to easily customize'

-> 'allows an end user to easily customize'

There are two main deployment scenarious, if RBAC is enabled in your Kubernetes cluster:

1. Deployment user has **_Cluster Admininistrator Access_**. In this scenario you have full access to the cluster and can deploy all componets as needed.

> 2. Deployment user has **_Namespace Admininistrator Access_**. This is typical for shared multitenant environments where each Team has control over thier namespace, but not the cluster. In this case your cluster Administrator can deploy creation of RBAC resources and Kernel Image Puller and you can deploy Enterprise Gateway.

Reviewer: thier -> their

- spark_python_kubernetes
- spark_scala_kubernetes

> Enterprise Gateway deployment is using [elyra/enterprise-gateway](https://hub.docker.com/r/elyra/enterprise-gateway/) image under Enterprise Gateway dockerhub organization [elyra](https://hub.docker.com/r/elyra/) along with other kubernetes-based images. See [Docker Images](../contributors/docker.md) for image details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enterprise Gateway deployments use the [elyra/enterprise-gateway](https://hub.docker.com/r/elyra/enterprise-gateway/) image from the Enterprise Gateway dockerhub organization [elyra](https://hub.docker.com/r/elyra/) along with other kubernetes-based images. See [Docker Images](../contributors/docker.md) for image details.
```

When deployed within a [spark-on-kubernetes](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-kubernetes.html) cluster, Enterprise Gateway can easily support cluster-managed kernels distributed across the cluster. Enterprise Gateway will also provide standalone (i.e., _vanilla_) kernel invocation (where spark contexts are not automatically created) which also benefits from their distribution across the cluster.

We are using helm templates to manage Kubernetes resource configurations which, allows enduser easily customize their Enterprise Gateway deployment.

> There are two main deployment scenarious, if RBAC is enabled in your Kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two main deployment scenarios if RBAC is enabled in your Kubernetes cluster:
```

> 1. Deployment user has **_Cluster Admininistrator Access_**. In this scenario you have full access to the cluster and can deploy all componets as needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Deployment user has **_Cluster Administrator Access_**. In this scenario, you have full access to the cluster and can deploy all components as needed.
```

> 2. Deployment user has **_Namespace Admininistrator Access_**. This is typical for shared multitenant environments where each Team has control over thier namespace, but not the cluster. In this case your cluster Administrator can deploy creation of RBAC resources and Kernel Image Puller and you can deploy Enterprise Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Deployment user has **_Namespace Administrator Access_**. This is typical for shared multitenant environments where each Team has control over their namespace, but not the cluster. In this scenario, your cluster Administrator can deploy the RBAC resources and Kernel Image Puller and you can deploy Enterprise Gateway.
```

## Prerequisites

- Install and configure [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) and [helm3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) on your workstation.

> - Create kubernetes namespace where you want to deploy `enterprise-gateway`, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create the kubernetes namespace where you want to deploy `enterprise-gateway`, for example:
```

  ```sh
  kubectl create namespace enterprise-gateway
  ```
- If you use RBAC, you will need cluster Admin access to configure RBAC resources
- If you plan to use Private docker registry, you will need to have credentials (see configuration steps below)

Once the Kubernetes cluster is configured and `kubectl` is demonstrated to be working, it is time to deploy Enterprise Gateway. There are a couple of different deployment options - using helm or kubectl.

## Deploying with helm

Choose this option if you want to deploy via a [helm](https://helm.sh/) chart. You can customize your deployment using value files - review Configuraation section below for details.

### Create the Enterprise Gateway kubernetes service and deployment

> You can execute helm command from checked out release of the Enterprise Gateway git [repository](https://github.com/jupyter-server/enterprise_gateway.git):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can execute the helm command from the checked-out release of the Enterprise Gateway git [repository](https://github.com/jupyter-server/enterprise_gateway.git):
```

```bash
helm  upgrade --install  enterprise-gateway \

>   jupyter-server/enterprise_gateway/etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \

Reviewer 2: In this case, I think we should assume the user's CWD is _in_ the EG repo directory...
```suggestion
  etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \
```

   --kube-context [mycluster-context-name] \
   --namespace [namespace-name]

```

Alternatively, helm chart tarball is also accessible as an asset on our [release](https://github.com/jupyter-server/enterprise_gateway/releases) page, replace [VERSION] with specific release version you wantr to use:

```bash
helm  upgrade --install  enterprise-gateway \
  https://github.com/jupyter-server/enterprise_gateway/releases/download/[VERSION]/jupyter_enterprise_gateway_helm-[VERSION].tgz \
   --kube-context [mycluster-context-name] \
   --namespace [namespace-name]
```

## Access to Enterprise Gateway from outside the cluster

> Take a look at Kubernetes [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/access-cluster-services/#ways-to-connect) on how you can access Kubernetes service from outside the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Take a look at the Kubernetes [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/access-cluster-services/#ways-to-connect) on how you can access the Kubernetes service from outside the cluster.
```

> Kubernetes Ingress is the most user friendly way of interacting with the service and that is what we will cover in this section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Kubernetes Ingress is the most user-friendly way of interacting with the service and that is what we will cover in this section.
```

> If you do not have Kubernetes Ingress configured on your cluster the easiest way to get access will be using NodePort service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not have a Kubernetes Ingress configured on your cluster the easiest way to get access will be using the NodePort service.
```

## Kubernetes Ingress Setup

> ##### Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: Header levels can only increase by one.
```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

> - Ingress controller deployed on your kubernetes cluster. Review Kubernetes [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) for evailable options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ingress controller deployed on your Kubernetes cluster. Review the Kubernetes [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) for available options.
```

- Wildcard DNS record is configured to point to the IP of the LoadBalancer, which frontends your ingress controller
- Review specific Ingress controller configuration to enable wildcard path support if you are using Kubernetes version < v1.18
- With Kubernetes v1.18 Ingress uses `PathType` parameter which is set to `Prefix` in the helm chart by default, so no additional configuration is required
- Refer to your ingress controller documentation on how to setup TLS with your ingress

> ###### Update Helm deployment to enable ingress

Reviewer 2: Is this meant to be a sub-section of Prerequisites or a sibling?  (Should it have a header level or 3 or 4?)
```suggestion
#### Update Helm deployment to enable ingress
```

Create file `values-ingress.yaml` with the following content:

```bash
ingress:
  enabled: true
  # Ingress resource host
  hostName: "[unique-fully-qualified-domanin-name]"

```

Add this file to your helm command and apply to the cluster replacing [PLACEHOLDER] with appropriate values for your environment:

```bash

> helm  upgrade --install  jupyter-e-gw \
>   jupyter-server/enterprise_gateway/etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \

Reviewer 2: Since we used `enterprise-gateway` in the very first (and default) example, I think we should be consistent elsewhere.  Also, the path should be relative to the repository again.
```suggestion
helm  upgrade --install enterprise-gateway \
  etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \
```

   --kube-context [mycluster-context-name] \
   --namespace [namespace-name] \
   -f values-ingress.yaml
```

## Basic Full Configuration Example of Enterprise Gateway Deployment

### Option 1. Use Kuernetes Ingress:

Create file `values-full.yaml` with the following content:

```bash
service:
  type: "ClusterIP"
  ports:
    # The primary port on which Enterprise Gateway is servicing requests.
    - name: "http"
      port: 8888
      targetPort: 8888
    # The  port on which Enterprise Gateway will receive kernel connection info responses.
    - name: "http-response"
      port: 8877
      targetPort: 8877
deployment:
# Update CPU/Memory as needed
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 10Gi
    requests:
      cpu: 1
      memory: 2Gi
  # Update to deploy multiple replicas of EG.
  replicas: 2

kip:
  enabled: false # turn this off, if runnning DaemonSets is restricted by your cluster Administrator

ingress:
  enabled: true
  # Ingress resource host

>   hostName: "jupiter-e-gw.example.com"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  hostName: "jupyter-e-gw.example.com"
```

```

### Option 2. Use NodePort Service:

Create file `values-full.yaml` with the following content, you can set nodeport value or have Kubernetes allocate random port:

```bash
service:
  type: "NodePort"
  ports:
    # The primary port on which Enterprise Gateway is servicing requests.
    - name: "http"
      port: 8888
      targetPort: 8888
    #  nodePort: 32652 # optional nodePort
    # The  port on which Enterprise Gateway will receive kernel connection info responses.
    - name: "http-response"
      port: 8877
      targetPort: 8877
    #  nodePort: 30481 # optional nodePort

deployment:
# Update CPU/Memory as needed
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 10Gi
    requests:
      cpu: 1
      memory: 2Gi
  # Update to deploy multiple replicas of EG.
  replicas: 2

kip:
  enabled: false # turn this off, if runnning DaemonSets is restricted by your cluster Administrator

ingress:
  enabled: false
```

> ### Option 2. Use NodePort Service with Private Docker Registry:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Option 3. Use NodePort Service with Private Docker Registry:
```

Create file `values-full.yaml` with the following content, you can set nodeport value or have Kubernetes allocate random port:

```bash
global:

>   # Craete RBAC resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # Create RBAC resources
```

service:
  type: "NodePort"
  ports:
    # The primary port on which Enterprise Gateway is servicing requests.
    - name: "http"
      port: 8888
      targetPort: 8888
    #  nodePort: 32652 # optional nodePort
    # The  port on which Enterprise Gateway will receive kernel connection info responses.
    - name: "http-response"
      port: 8877
      targetPort: 8877
    #  nodePort: 30481 # optional nodePort

# Enterprise Gateway image name and tag to use from private registry.
image: private.io/elyra/enterprise-gateway:dev

deployment:
# Update CPU/Memory as needed
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 10Gi
    requests:
      cpu: 1
      memory: 2Gi
  # Update to deploy multiple replicas of EG.
  replicas: 2

kip:
  enabled: false # turn this off, if runnning DaemonSets is restricted by your cluster Administrator
  # Kernel Image Puller image name and tag to use from private registry.
  image: private.io/elyra/kernel-image-puller:dev

ingress:
  enabled: false
```

### Deploy with helm

Add values file to your helm command and apply to the cluster replacing [PLACEHOLDER] with appropriate values for your environment:

```bash

> helm  upgrade --install \
>   jupyter-e-gw \
>   jupyter-server/enterprise_gateway/etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \

Reviewer 2: Ditto here as well
```suggestion
helm  upgrade --install enterprise-gateway
  etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \
```

   --kube-context [mycluster-context-name] \
   --namespace [namespace-name] \
   -f values-full.yaml
```

if you are using private registry add setting base64 encoded secret value to you command:
`--set imagePullSecretsCreate.secrets[0].data="UHJvZCBTZWNyZXQgSW5mb3JtYXRpb24K"`

### Deploy with kubectl

Choose this deployment option if you want to deploy directly from Kubernetes template files with kubectl, rather than using a package manager like helm.

Add values file to your helm command and generate `yaml` files replacing [PLACEHOLDER] with appropriate values for your environment:

```bash
helm template \
  --output-dir [/tmp/mydeployment] \

>   jupyter-e-gw \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  enterprise-gateway \
```

  etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \
   --namespace [namespace-name] \
   -f values-full.yaml
```

if you are using private registry add setting base64 encoded secret value to you command:
`--set imagePullSecretsCreate.secrets[0].data="UHJvZCBTZWNyZXQgSW5mb3JtYXRpb24K"`

Now you can review generated `yaml` files and apply them to your Kubernetes cluster:

```bash
kubectl apply -f /tmp/mydeployment/enterprise-gateway/templates/
```

> _**NOTE: Do not store secrets in the source control.**_

Reviewer 2: I think this is great advice for an "important" callout...
```suggestion
```{important}
Never store secrets in your source code control files!
\`\`\`
```
Note that the trailing backtick-tuple is not meant to be escaped but they conflict with the closing backtick-tuple in the GH suggestion.  (Do you happen to know how to deal with that?)

### Validation

> You can start jupiter notebook to connect to the configured endpoint `http://jupiter-e-gw.example.com`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can start jupyter notebook to connect to the configured endpoint `http://jupyter-e-gw.example.com`
```

## Advanced Configuration Example of Enterprise Gateway Deployment

If you need to deploy Enterprise Gateway to a restrictred Kubernetes cluster with _RBAC_ and _PodSecurityPolicies_ enabled, you may want to consider deploying Enterprise Gateway components as separate helm releases:

> ###### 1. Helm release which will configure required RBAC, PSP and service accounts.

Reviewer 2: Missed.  I believe the docs should build after this.
```suggestion
### 1. Helm release which will configure required RBAC, PSP, and service accounts.
```

- Tipically this will be done by Cluster Admininstrator.

Create `values-rbac.yaml` file with the following content:

```bash
global:
  # Craete RBAC resources
  rbac: true
  serviceAccountName: 'enterprise-gateway-sa'

deployment:
  enabled: false

ingress:
  enabled: false

kip:
  enabled: false
  serviceAccountName: 'kernel-image-puller-sa'
  podSecurityPolicy:
    create: true
```

Run helm deploy:

```bash

> helm  upgrade --install \
>   jupyter-e-gw-rbac \
>   jupyter-server/enterprise_gateway/etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm  upgrade --install enterprise-gateway \
  etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \
```

   --kube-context [mycluster-context-name] \
   --namespace [namespace-name] \
   -f values-rbac.yaml
```

> ###### 2. Helm release to deploy Kernel Image Puller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. Helm release to deploy Kernel Image Puller.
```

> - Tipically this will be done by Cluster Admininstrator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Typically this will be done by the Cluster Administrator.
```

Create `values-kip.yaml` file with the following content:

```bash
global:
  # Craete RBAC resources
  rbac: false

deployment:
  enabled: false

ingress:
  enabled: false

# Kernel Image Puller (daemonset)
kip:
  enabled: true
  serviceAccountName: 'kernel-image-puller-sa'
  podSecurityPolicy:
    create: false
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: 100m
      memory: 200Mi
    requests:
      cpu: 50m
      memory: 100Mi
```

Run helm deploy:

```bash

> helm  upgrade --install \
>   jupyter-e-gw-rbac \
>   jupyter-server/enterprise_gateway/etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm  upgrade --install enterprise-gateway \
  etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \
```

   --kube-context [mycluster-context-name] \
   --namespace [namespace-name] \
   -f values-kip.yaml
```

###### 3. Helm release to deploy Enterprise Gateway.

- This can be done by namespace Administrator.

Create `values-eg.yaml` file with the following content:

```bash
global:
  rbac: false

service:
  type: "ClusterIP"
  ports:
    # The primary port on which Enterprise Gateway is servicing requests.
    - name: "http"
      port: 8888
      targetPort: 8888
      # nodePort: 32652 # optional nodePort
    # The  port on which Enterprise Gateway will receive kernel connection info responses.
    - name: "http-response"
      port: 8877
      targetPort: 8877
      # nodePort: 30481 # optional nodePort

deployment:
  enabled: true
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: 2
      memory: 10Gi
    requests:
      cpu: 500m
      memory: 2Gi
  # Update to deploy multiple replicas of EG.
  replicas: 1

ingress:
  enabled: true
  # Ingress resource host

>   hostName: "jupiter-e-gw.example.com"

Reviewer 2: Does this value need a placeholder?  Let's not persist this value as it's listed here.

>   hostName: "jupiter-e-gw.example.com"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  hostName: "jupyter-e-gw.example.com"
```

kip:
  enabled: false

```

Run helm deploy:

```bash

> helm  upgrade --install \
>   jupyter-e-gw-rbac \
>   jupyter-server/enterprise_gateway/etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm  upgrade --install enterprise-gateway \
  etc/kubernetes/helm/enterprise-gateway \
```

| `kip.pullPolicy`                        | Determines whether the Kernel Image Puller will pull kernel images it has previously pulled (`Always`) or only those it hasn't yet pulled (`IfNotPresent`)                                                                                       | `IfNotPresent`                                                                 |
| `kip.criSocket`                         | The container runtime interface socket, use `/run/containerd/containerd.sock` for containerd installations                                                                                                                                       | `/var/run/docker.sock`                                                         |
| `kip.defaultContainerRegistry`          | Prefix to use if a registry is not already specified on image name (e.g., quay.io/elyra/kernel-py:2.6.0)                                                                                                                                         | `docker.io`                                                                    |

> #### Uninstalling Enterprise Gateway

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Uninstalling Enterprise Gateway
```

When using helm, you can uninstall Enterprise Gateway with the following command:

```bash

> helm delete enterprise-gateway \

Reviewer 2: Should this be 'uninstall'?  
```suggestion
helm uninstall enterprise-gateway \
```

When I run `helm delete` I get the following - implying `delete` has probably been replaced with `uninstall`...
```
$ helm delete
Error: "helm uninstall" requires at least 1 argument

Usage:  helm uninstall RELEASE_NAME [...] [flags]
```

Author: I see `delete`  command has been  renamed, but `delete` works as well

  --kube-context [mycluster-context-name] \

>    --namespace [namespace-name] \

Reviewer 2: Trailing newline escape...
```suggestion
   --namespace [namespace-name]
```

Here are the values that you can set when deploying the helm chart. You
can override them with helm's `--set` or `--values` options.

| **Parameter**                         | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | **Default**                                                                    |

> | ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --- | ---------- | ----------------- | ------- |

Reviewer 2: I think we have two many columns here.
```suggestion
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | 
```

Author: looks like prettier made these changes to the table, i'll see if i can fix it
